What is mixed content blog post (#3897)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/secure/what-is-mixed-content/index.md

---
layout: post
title: What is mixed content?
authors:
  - johyphenel
  - rachelandrew
date: 2019-09-07
updated: 2020-09-16
description: >
  Mixed content occurs when initial HTML is loaded over a secure HTTPS connection,
  but other resources are loaded over an insecure HTTP connection.

> tags:
>   - security
> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags:
  - security
  - network
  - privacy
  - html
  - css
  - javascript
  - images
  - media
---
```
The last 6 tags are a bit of a stretch but I suppose it's good to be more comprehensive with our tagging approach (because mixed content definitely can affect all those areas)

Author: I'll add these to the other one as well

> **Mixed content** occurs when initial HTML is loaded over a secure HTTPS connection,
> but other resources (such as images, videos, stylesheets, scripts)
> are loaded over an insecure HTTP connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Mixed content** occurs when initial HTML is loaded over a secure
[HTTPS](/why-https-matters/) connection, but other resources (such as images,
videos, stylesheets, scripts) are loaded over an insecure HTTP connection.
```

This is called mixed content
because both HTTP and HTTPS content are being loaded to display the same page,
and the initial request was secure over HTTPS.

> Requesting subresources using the insecure HTTP protocol weakens the security of the entire page,
> as these requests are vulnerable to **man-in-the-middle attacks**,
> where an attacker eavesdrops on a network connection and views or modifies the communication between two parties.
> Using these resources, an attacker can often take complete control over the page,
> not just the compromised resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Requesting subresources using the insecure HTTP protocol weakens the security of the entire page,
as these requests are vulnerable to [**on-path attacks**](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc7835.html#section-2.1.1),
where an attacker eavesdrops on a network connection and views or modifies the communication between two parties.
Using these resources, an attacker can often take complete control over the page,
not just the compromised resource.
```

FYI @rachelandrew we've got an internal "do not use" word list asking us to avoid `man-in-the-middle`. I don't expect you to memorize this (and we should automate this detection) but I figured I'd give you the FYI.

Although many browsers report mixed content warnings to the user,
by the time this happens, it is too late:
the insecure requests have already been performed and the security of the page is compromised.

> This is why mixed content is increasingly being blocked by browsers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is why browsers are increasingly blocking mixed content.
```

Avoiding passive sentence construction

If you have mixed content on your site,
then fixing it will ensure the content continues to load as browsers become more strict.

## The two types of mixed content

The two types of mixed content are: active and passive.

**Passive mixed content** refers to content that doesn't interact with the rest of the page,
and thus a man-in-the-middle attack is restricted to what they can do if they intercept or change that content.
Passive mixed content includes images, video, and audio content,

> along with other resources that cannot interact with the rest of the page.

Reviewer 2: The [spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/mixed-content/#category-optionally-blockable) defines passive mixed content as just images, video, and audio, so the last part of this sentence can be ommitted.

replace your product diagrams with lewd or pornographic content,
defacing your site; or replace your product pictures with ads for a different site or product.

Even if the attacker doesn't alter the content of your site,
an attacker can track users via mixed content requests.
The attacker can tell which pages a user visits and which products they view based on images or other resources that the browser loads.

The following Glitch demo contains examples of passive mixed content.

<div class="glitch-embed-wrap" style="height: 420px; width: 100%;">
  <iframe
    src="https://glitch.com/embed/#!/embed/passive-mixed-content?path=index.html&previewSize=100"
    title="passive-mixed-content on Glitch"
    allow="encrypted-media"
    style="height: 100%; width: 100%; border: 0;">
  </iframe>
</div>

If passive mixed content is present most browsers will indicate in the URL bar that the page is not secure,
even when the page itself was loaded over HTTPS.

Until recently passive mixed content was loaded in all browsers,
as to block it would have broken many websites.
This is now beginning to change and so it is vital to update any instances of mixed content on your site.

> Chrome is currently rolling out automatic upgrading of passive mixed content where possible.
> Automatic upgrading means that if the asset is available over HTTPS, but has been hardcoded as HTTP,
> the browser will load the HTTPS version. If no secure version can be found the asset will not load.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of September 2020 Chrome is currently rolling out automatic upgrading of
passive mixed content where possible. Automatic upgrading means that if the
asset is available over HTTPS, but has been hardcoded as HTTP, the browser
will load the HTTPS version. If no secure version can be found, Chrome will
not load the asset.
```
Do we have a Chrome link announcing the roll-out? Do we have info on other browsers?

(`As of September 2020` and rephrasing the last sentence to avoid passive voice are the only changes here. I just wrapped the sentences to be well-below 100 characters width while I was in the neighborhood.)

> When mixed content is detected, or auto-upgrading has occurred, this will be noted in the Chrome DevTools console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chrome logs messages to its DevTools Console whenever it detects mixed content
or auto-upgrades passive mixed content.
```
Avoiding passive voice

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot"
      src="passive-mixed-content.jpg"
      alt="Chrome DevTools showing the warnings displayed when mixed content is detected and upgraded">
</figure>

### Active mixed content

Active mixed content poses a greater threat than passive mixed content.
An attacker can intercept and rewrite active content,
thereby taking full control of your page or even your entire website.
This allows the attacker to change anything about the page,
including displaying entirely different content,
stealing user passwords or other login credentials,
stealing user session cookies,
or redirecting the user to a different site entirely.

Due to the severity of this threat,

> many browsers already block this type of content by default to protect users,

Reviewer 2: Nitpick: I'd change this to most, since all current versions of major browsers block it.

but functionality varies between browser vendors and versions.

The following contains examples of active mixed content:

<div class="glitch-embed-wrap" style="height: 420px; width: 100%;">
  <iframe
    src="https://glitch.com/embed/#!/embed/active-mixed-content?previewSize=100"
    title="active-mixed-content on Glitch"
    allow="encrypted-media"
    style="height: 100%; width: 100%; border: 0;">
  </iframe>
</div>

> [Load the example over HTTP](http://active-mixed-content.glitch.me/) and you will see the content that has been blocked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Load the example over HTTP](http://active-mixed-content.glitch.me/)
to see the content that's blocked when you [load the example over
HTTPS](https://active-mixed-content.glitch.me/).
```
Attempting to make the calls-to-action clearer

> Blocked content will be detailed in the Chrome DevTools console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blocked content will be detailed in the Chrome DevTools Console.
```

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot"
      src="active-mixed-content.jpg"
      alt="Chrome DevTools showing the warnings displayed when active mixed content is blocked">
</figure>

## The mixed content specification

> Browsers follow the [mixed content specification](https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-mixed-content/),

Reviewer 2: Optional: We are in the process of writing a new Level 2 version of mixed content (https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-mixed-content/level2.html), which will put autoupgrades in the spec, and which eventually will completely replace MIX. It might be worth mentioning its existence int his section (though since it's a WIP we can also edit this section once MIX2 is done, either way works for me).

and [**blockable content**](https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-mixed-content/#category-blockable) categories.

From the spec,
a resource qualifies as optionally blockable content
"when the risk of allowing its usage as mixed content is outweighed by the risk of breaking significant portions of the web";
this is a subset of the passive mixed content category described above.

All content that is not **optionally blockable** is considered **blockable**,
and should be blocked by the browser.

In recent years, [HTTPS usage has risen dramatically](https://transparencyreport.google.com/https/overview),
and has become the clear default on the web.
This makes it more feasible now for browsers to consider blocking all mixed content,
even those subresource types defined in the [mixed content specification](https://w3c.github.io/webappsec/specs/mixedcontent/) as **optionally blockable**.
This is why we now see Chrome taking a stricter approach to these subresources.

### Older browsers

It is important to remember that not every visitor to your website uses the most up-to-date browsers.

> Different versions from different browser vendors each behave differently with mixed content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Different versions from different browser vendors each treat mixed content differently.
```
Just a nitpick-y rephrase because I feel that this makes it clearer that the browser is actually choosing what to do with mixed content

> At worst, some browsers and versions don't block any mixed content at all,

Reviewer 2: Optional: Also because most major browsers have been blocking active MC for a while (Firefox since 2013, I couldn't find the exact date for Chrome, IE, and Safari, but I think it was around the same time), I'd suggest changing this to "At worst, older versions of browsers don't...", since even accounting for users with old browsers it's fairly unlikely for people to be running such old versions.

---
layout: post

> title: What is mixed content

Reviewer 3: Maybe 'What is mixed content?' 

(With a question mark.)

  but other resources are loaded over an insecure HTTP connection.
tags:
  - security
---

**Mixed content** occurs when initial HTML is loaded over a secure HTTPS connection,
but other resources (such as images, videos, stylesheets, scripts)
are loaded over an insecure HTTP connection.
This is called mixed content
because both HTTP and HTTPS content are being loaded to display the same page,
and the initial request was secure over HTTPS.

Requesting subresources using the insecure HTTP protocol weakens the security of the entire page,
as these requests are vulnerable to **man-in-the-middle attacks**,
where an attacker eavesdrops on a network connection and views or modifies the communication between two parties.
Using these resources, an attacker can often take complete control over the page,
not just the compromised resource.

Although many browsers report mixed content warnings to the user,
by the time this happens, it is too late:
the insecure requests have already been performed and the security of the page is compromised.

This is why mixed content is increasingly being blocked by browsers.
If you have mixed content on your site,

> then fixing it will ensure it continues to load as browsers become more strict.

Reviewer 3: Maybe 'will ensure the content continues to load'.

## The two types of mixed content

The two types of mixed content are: active and passive.

**Passive mixed content** refers to content that doesn't interact with the rest of the page,
and thus a man-in-the-middle attack is restricted to what they can do if they intercept or change that content.
Passive mixed content includes images, video, and audio content,
along with other resources that cannot interact with the rest of the page.

**Active mixed content** interacts with the page as a whole and allows an attacker to do almost anything with the page.

> Active mixed content includes scripts, stylesheets, iframes, flash resources,

Reviewer 3: Flash (capital F).

Also — is Flash still worth mentioning?

Author: I'd removed other mentions, missed this so just removing it.

and other code that the browser can download and execute.

### Passive mixed content

Passive mixed content is seen as less problematic yet still poses a security threat to your site and your users.
For example, an attacker can intercept HTTP requests for images on your site and swap or replace these images;
the attacker can swap the _save_ and _delete_ button images,
causing your users to delete content without intending to;
replace your product diagrams with lewd or pornographic content,
defacing your site; or replace your product pictures with ads for a different site or product.

Even if the attacker doesn't alter the content of your site,

> an attacker can track users using mixed content requests.

Reviewer 3: Maybe 'can track users making ...' or 'can track users via ...'

The attacker can tell which pages a user visits and which products they view based on images or other resources that the browser loads.

The following Glitch demo contains examples of passive mixed content.

<div class="glitch-embed-wrap" style="height: 420px; width: 100%;">
  <iframe
    src="https://glitch.com/embed/#!/embed/passive-mixed-content?path=index.html&previewSize=100"
    title="passive-mixed-content on Glitch"
    allow="encrypted-media"
    style="height: 100%; width: 100%; border: 0;">
  </iframe>
</div>

> If passive mixed content is present most browsers will indicate that the page is not secure in the URL bar,

Reviewer 3: Maybe 'If passive mixed content is present most browsers will indicate in the URL bar that the page is not secure ...'

even when the page itself was loaded over HTTPS.

Until recently passive mixed content was loaded in all browsers,
as to block it would have broken many websites.
This is now beginning to change and so it is vital to update any instances of mixed content on your site.

Chrome is currently rolling out automatic upgrading of passive mixed content where possible.
Automatic upgrading means that if the asset is available over HTTPS, but has been hardcoded as HTTP,
the browser will load the HTTPS version. If no secure version can be found the asset will not load.

> When mixed content is detected, or auto-upgrading has occured, this will be noted in DevTools.

Reviewer 3: Either 'browser developer tools' or 'Chrome DevTools'.

> When mixed content is detected, or auto-upgrading has occured, this will be noted in DevTools.

Reviewer 3: occurred

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot"
      src="passive-mixed-content.jpg"

>       alt="DevTools showing the warnings displayed when mixed content is detected and upgraded">

Reviewer 3: Chrome DevTools

</figure>

### Active mixed content

> Active mixed content poses a greater threat than passive.

Reviewer 3: Maybe 'than passive mixed content.'

An attacker can intercept and rewrite active content,
thereby taking full control of your page or even your entire website.
This allows the attacker to change anything about the page,
including displaying entirely different content,
stealing user passwords or other login credentials,
stealing user session cookies,
or redirecting the user to a different site entirely.

Due to the severity of this threat,
many browsers already block this type of content by default to protect users,
but functionality varies between browser vendors and versions.

The following contains examples of active mixed content:

<div class="glitch-embed-wrap" style="height: 420px; width: 100%;">
  <iframe
    src="https://glitch.com/embed/#!/embed/active-mixed-content?previewSize=100"
    title="active-mixed-content on Glitch"
    allow="encrypted-media"
    style="height: 100%; width: 100%; border: 0;">
  </iframe>
</div>

[Load the example over HTTP](http://active-mixed-content.glitch.me/) and you will see the content that has been blocked.

> Blocked content will be detailed in the Console in DevTools.

Reviewer 3: 'in the Chrome DevTools console.'

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot"
      src="active-mixed-content.jpg"

>       alt="DevTools showing the warnings displayed when active mixed content is blocked">

Reviewer 3: Chrome DevTools

this is a subset of the passive mixed content category described above.

All content that is not **optionally blockable** is considered **blockable**,
and should be blocked by the browser.

In recent years, [HTTPS usage has risen dramatically](https://transparencyreport.google.com/https/overview),
and has become the clear default on the web.
This makes it more feasible now for browsers to consider blocking all mixed content,
even those subresource types defined in the [mixed content specification](https://w3c.github.io/webappsec/specs/mixedcontent/) as **optionally blockable**.
This is why we now see Chrome taking a stricter approach to these subresources.

### Older browsers

It is important to remember that not every visitor to your website uses the most up-to-date browsers.
Different versions from different browser vendors each behave differently with mixed content.
At worst, some browsers and versions don't block any mixed content at all,
which is very unsafe for the user.

By fixing your mixed content problems you ensure that your content is visible in new browsers.

> You also help protext users who are on older browsers,

Reviewer 3: protect

> from dangerous content their browser does not protect them from.

Reviewer 3: Maybe 'You also help protect users from dangerous content that isn't blocked by older browsers.'
